# Taxus-transcriptomic-study
<p>Taxus, a medicinal plant, is widely recognized for its ability to natively produce paclitaxel. Placlitaxel, a plant sepcialized secondary metabolite, possesses tremendous anticancer functionality by stabilizing microtubules, thereby leading to death of cancer cells. Various types of cancers can be treated with paclitaxel, including ovarian and breast cancer. Paclitaxel has received its FDA approval in 1992. Since then, its market demand is rising.</p>
<p>
  Initailly, partial chemical syntheis has been employed for industrial production from its precursor extracted from the bark of a Taxus tree. However, due to the increased market demand of the compound, this production method requires excessive extraction of its precursor from the tree, posing serious threat to the survival of Taxus species. With the advancement of plant cell culture technology (PCC), it is possible to produce paclitaxel by developing Taxus PCC without desctroying its natural habitat. However, the continuous production of paclitaxel using Tasus PCC is limited by low yield. To tackle this issue, knowledge on global gene regulatory mechanisms responsible enhanced paclitaxel productio is necessary.
</p>
<p>
  Here, we have conducted an extensive Taxus transcriptomic (RNA-seq) study on varying experimental condition to dicipher global gene regulatory mehcansim and discover critical genes might be responsible for enhanced paclitaxel production. This study will provide sufficient information for potential downstream engineering applications such as transforming Taxus cells for gene-overexpression, gene-knockout or RNAi, thereby leading to the generation of genetically modified cell-line that is cabaple of producing increased level of paclitaxel.
</p>
